README.md, before:

*Please be aware that this library / application / sample is provided as a community project without any guarantee of support*
=========================================================
# CriticalPermissionsHelper

[![](https://jitpack.io/v/ltrudu/CriticalPermissionsHelper.svg)](https://jitpack.io/#ltrudu/CriticalPermissionsHelper)
[![](https://jitpack.io/v/ltrudu/CriticalPermissionsHelper/month.svg)](https://jitpack.io/#ltrudu/CriticalPermissionsHelper)


## Easy grant critical permissions to your Zebra's device

Forget about AccessMgr, StageNow, EMDK, certificates, application signature... complexity....

Just grant some critical permissions on your Zebra device in one method call (see at the end of this document).

Includes: ACCESS_NOTIFICATIONS, PACKAGE_USAGE_STATS, SYSTEM_ALERT_WINDOW, BATTERY_STATS, MANAGE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE, GET_APP_OPS_STATS, ALL_DANGEROUS_PERMISSIONS

Have fun with Zebra's devices :)

## Sample Repository
https://github.com/ltrudu/CriticalPermissionsHelper-Sample


## Description
A wrapper to easily grant critical permissions to your application running on Zebra's Android devices with Android >= A11

Available permissions are:

```txt
#1. Access Notifications:	
Controls permission to access Notifications on the device.			

#2. Package Usage Stats:	
Controls permission to access app usage statistics for the device.			

#3. System Alert Window:	
Controls permission to use the System Alert Window, which allows one app to draw its window(s) over another.			

#4. Get AppOps Stats:	
Controls permission to access app operations statistics, used to determine the resources being used by apps on the device.

#5. Battery Stats:	
Controls permission to access battery statistics for the device.			

#6. Manage External Storage:	
Controls management of USB and/or SD card storage media attached to the device.	

#7. All Dangerous Permissions (MX >= 13.1, StageNow >= 5.11.0)
Grants all permissions that requires runtime permission model
To know which permissions are listed as Dangerous, execute the following ADB command:
adb shell pm list permissions -g -d
```

This wrapper will use the EMDK with MX's AccessMgr feature to grant, deny or verify (WIP) critical permissions.

## Implementation
To use this helper on Zebra Android devices running Android 10 or higher, first declare a new permission in your AndroidManifest.xml
The EMDK permission is compulsary, the others are depending on your needs.

```xml
    <uses-permission android:name="com.symbol.emdk.permission.EMDK" />

    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_NOTIFICATIONS"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.PACKAGE_USAGE_STATS"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.SYSTEM_ALERT_WINDOW"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.BATTERY_STATS"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.MANAGE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.GET_APP_OPS_STATS"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
		
	<!-- Or any dangerous permission, for example: -->
   <uses-permission android:name="permission:android.permission.ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
   <uses-permission android:name="permission:android.permission.BLUETOOTH_CONNECT"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />   
		<uses-permission android:name="  permission:android.permission.BLUETOOTH_SCAN"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
	  
```

Sample AdroidManifest.xml:
```xml
?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<manifest xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
    xmlns:tools="http://schemas.android.com/tools"
    package="com.zebra.criticalpermissionshelpersample">
    <!--> TODO: Add these permissions to your manifest </-->
    <uses-permission android:name="com.symbol.emdk.permission.EMDK" />

    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_NOTIFICATIONS"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.PACKAGE_USAGE_STATS"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.SYSTEM_ALERT_WINDOW"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.BATTERY_STATS"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.MANAGE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.GET_APP_OPS_STATS"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
	<uses-permission android:name="permission:android.permission.ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
	<uses-permission android:name="permission:android.permission.BLUETOOTH_CONNECT"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />   
	<uses-permission android:name="  permission:android.permission.BLUETOOTH_SCAN"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />

    <application
        android:allowBackup="true"
        android:icon="@mipmap/ic_launcher"
        android:label="@string/app_name"
        android:roundIcon="@mipmap/ic_launcher_round"
        android:supportsRtl="true"
        android:theme="@style/AppTheme">
        <!--> TODO: Add uses-library com.symbol.emdk to your manifest </-->
        <uses-library android:name="com.symbol.emdk" />
        <activity android:name="com.zebra.criticalpermissionshelpersample.MainActivity"
            android:exported="true">
            <intent-filter>
                <action android:name="android.intent.action.MAIN" />

                <category android:name="android.intent.category.LAUNCHER" />
            </intent-filter>
        </activity>
    </application>

</manifest>
```
Update your project build.graddle file to add jitpack repository
```text
        maven { url 'https://jitpack.io' }        
```
Sample project build.gradle
```text
        buildscript {
    repositories {
        google()
        jcenter()
        maven { url 'https://jitpack.io' }
    }
    dependencies {
        classpath 'com.android.tools.build:gradle:7.2.1'

        // NOTE: Do not place your application dependencies here; they belong
        // in the individual module build.gradle files
    }
}

allprojects {
    repositories {
        jcenter()
        google()
        maven { url 'https://jitpack.io' }
    }
}

task clean(type: Delete) {
    delete rootProject.buildDir
}       
```

Finally, add CriticalPermissionsHelper dependency to your application build.graddle file:
```text
        implementation 'com.github.ltrudu:CriticalPermissionsHelper:+'        
```

Sample application build.graddle:
```text
dependencies {
    implementation fileTree(dir: 'libs', include: ['*.jar'])
    implementation 'com.android.support:appcompat-v7:28.0.0'
    testImplementation 'junit:junit:4.13'
    androidTestImplementation 'com.android.support.test:runner:1.0.2'
    androidTestImplementation 'com.android.support.test.espresso:espresso-core:3.0.2'
    implementation 'com.github.ltrudu:CriticalPermissionsHelper:+'
}
```

Now you can use the following snippet codes to grant permissions.

The type of permissions you can grant:
```java
EPermissionType.ACCESS_NOTIFICATIONS
EPermissionType.PACKAGE_USAGE_STATS
EPermissionType.SYSTEM_ALERT_WINDOW
EPermissionType.GET_APP_OPS_STATS
EPermissionType.BATTERY_STATS
EPermissionType.MANAGE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE
EPermissionType.ALL_DANGEROUS_PERMISSIONS
```

Snippet code to grant a permission:
```java
private void enablePermission(final Context aContext, final EPermissionType aPermissionType)
{
    // Enable permission
    CriticalPermissionsHelper.grantPermission(aContext, aPermissionType, new IResultCallbacks() {
        @Override
        public void onSuccess(String message, String resultXML) {
            Log.d(TAG, aPermissionType.toString() + " granted with success.");
        }

        @Override
        public void onError(String message, String resultXML) {
            Log.d(TAG, "Error granting " + aPermissionType.toString() + " permission.\n" + message);
        }

        @Override
        public void onDebugStatus(String message) {
            Log.d(TAG, "Debug Grant Permission " + aPermissionType.toString() + ": " + message);
        }
    });
  }
```

Snippet code to disable a permission:
```java
private void disablePermission(final Context aContext, final EPermissionType aPermissionType)
{
    // Enable permission
    CriticalPermissionsHelper.denyPermission(aContext, aPermissionType, new IResultCallbacks() {
        @Override
        public void onSuccess(String message, String resultXML) {
            Log.d(TAG, aPermissionType.toString() + " granted with success.");
        }

        @Override
        public void onError(String message, String resultXML) {
            Log.d(TAG, "Error granting " + aPermissionType.toString() + " permission.\n" + message);
        }

        @Override
        public void onDebugStatus(String message) {
            Log.d(TAG, "Debug Grant Permission " + aPermissionType.toString() + ": " + message);
        }
    });
  }
```

The verifyPermission method is a work in progress.
Check the sample for more information.

Commit message:

Added Accessibility Service Updated version to reflect mx target version: 1.15.0 Updated Readme.md

README.md, after:

*Please be aware that this library / application / sample is provided as a community project without any guarantee of support*
=========================================================
# CriticalPermissionsHelper

[![](https://jitpack.io/v/ltrudu/CriticalPermissionsHelper.svg)](https://jitpack.io/#ltrudu/CriticalPermissionsHelper)
[![](https://jitpack.io/v/ltrudu/CriticalPermissionsHelper/month.svg)](https://jitpack.io/#ltrudu/CriticalPermissionsHelper)


## Easy grant critical permissions to your Zebra's device

Forget about AccessMgr, StageNow, EMDK, certificates, application signature... complexity....

Just grant some critical permissions on your Zebra device in one method call (see at the end of this document).

Includes: ACCESS_NOTIFICATIONS, PACKAGE_USAGE_STATS, SYSTEM_ALERT_WINDOW, BATTERY_STATS, MANAGE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE, GET_APP_OPS_STATS, ALL_DANGEROUS_PERMISSIONS, WRITE_SETTINGS, ACCESSIBILITY_SERVICE

Have fun with Zebra's devices :)

## Sample Repository
https://github.com/ltrudu/CriticalPermissionsHelper-Sample


## Description
A wrapper to easily grant critical permissions to your application running on Zebra's Android devices with Android >= A11

Available permissions are:

```txt
#1. Access Notifications:	
Controls permission to access Notifications on the device.			

#2. Package Usage Stats:	
Controls permission to access app usage statistics for the device.			

#3. System Alert Window:	
Controls permission to use the System Alert Window, which allows one app to draw its window(s) over another.			

#4. Get AppOps Stats:	
Controls permission to access app operations statistics, used to determine the resources being used by apps on the device.

#5. Battery Stats:	
Controls permission to access battery statistics for the device.			

#6. Manage External Storage:	
Controls management of USB and/or SD card storage media attached to the device.	

#7. All Dangerous Permissions (MX >= 13.1, StageNow >= 5.11.0)
Grants all permissions that requires runtime permission model
To know which permissions are listed as Dangerous, execute the following ADB command:
adb shell pm list permissions -g -d

#8. Access RX Logger
Controls access to Zebra RxLogger diagnostics utility usage on the device.

#9. Schedule Exact Alarm
Allows a user-facing app use Android exact alarm APIs to trigger an alarm at an exact time in the future, such as for an alarm clock or calendar app.

#10. Write Settings
Allows an app to write (or read) Android system settings.

#11. Accessibility Service
Controls permission for an app to interact with the device UI, for example to act on behalf of a disabled user.

```

This wrapper will use the EMDK with MX's AccessMgr feature to grant, deny or verify (WIP) critical permissions.

## Implementation
To use this helper on Zebra Android devices running Android 10 or higher, first declare a new permission in your AndroidManifest.xml
The EMDK permission is compulsary, the others are depending on your needs.

```xml
    <uses-permission android:name="com.symbol.emdk.permission.EMDK" />

    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_NOTIFICATIONS"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.PACKAGE_USAGE_STATS"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.SYSTEM_ALERT_WINDOW"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.BATTERY_STATS"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.MANAGE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.GET_APP_OPS_STATS"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
		
	<!-- Or any dangerous permission, for example: -->
   <uses-permission android:name="permission:android.permission.ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
   <uses-permission android:name="permission:android.permission.BLUETOOTH_CONNECT"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />   
		<uses-permission android:name="  permission:android.permission.BLUETOOTH_SCAN"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
	  
```

Sample AdroidManifest.xml:
```xml
?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<manifest xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
    xmlns:tools="http://schemas.android.com/tools"
    package="com.zebra.criticalpermissionshelpersample">
    <!--> TODO: Add these permissions to your manifest </-->
    <uses-permission android:name="com.symbol.emdk.permission.EMDK" />

    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_NOTIFICATIONS"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.PACKAGE_USAGE_STATS"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.SYSTEM_ALERT_WINDOW"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.BATTERY_STATS"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.MANAGE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.GET_APP_OPS_STATS"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
	<uses-permission android:name="permission:android.permission.ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />
	<uses-permission android:name="permission:android.permission.BLUETOOTH_CONNECT"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />   
	<uses-permission android:name="  permission:android.permission.BLUETOOTH_SCAN"
        tools:ignore="ProtectedPermissions" />

    <application
        android:allowBackup="true"
        android:icon="@mipmap/ic_launcher"
        android:label="@string/app_name"
        android:roundIcon="@mipmap/ic_launcher_round"
        android:supportsRtl="true"
        android:theme="@style/AppTheme">
        <!--> TODO: Add uses-library com.symbol.emdk to your manifest </-->
        <uses-library android:name="com.symbol.emdk" />
        <activity android:name="com.zebra.criticalpermissionshelpersample.MainActivity"
            android:exported="true">
            <intent-filter>
                <action android:name="android.intent.action.MAIN" />

                <category android:name="android.intent.category.LAUNCHER" />
            </intent-filter>
        </activity>
    </application>

</manifest>
```
Update your project build.graddle file to add jitpack repository
```text
        maven { url 'https://jitpack.io' }        
```
Sample project build.gradle
```text
        buildscript {
    repositories {
        google()
        jcenter()
        maven { url 'https://jitpack.io' }
    }
    dependencies {
        classpath 'com.android.tools.build:gradle:7.2.1'

        // NOTE: Do not place your application dependencies here; they belong
        // in the individual module build.gradle files
    }
}

allprojects {
    repositories {
        jcenter()
        google()
        maven { url 'https://jitpack.io' }
    }
}

task clean(type: Delete) {
    delete rootProject.buildDir
}       
```

Finally, add CriticalPermissionsHelper dependency to your application build.graddle file:
```text
        implementation 'com.github.ltrudu:CriticalPermissionsHelper:+'        
```

Sample application build.graddle:
```text
dependencies {
    implementation fileTree(dir: 'libs', include: ['*.jar'])
    implementation 'com.android.support:appcompat-v7:28.0.0'
    testImplementation 'junit:junit:4.13'
    androidTestImplementation 'com.android.support.test:runner:1.0.2'
    androidTestImplementation 'com.android.support.test.espresso:espresso-core:3.0.2'
    implementation 'com.github.ltrudu:CriticalPermissionsHelper:+'
}
```

Now you can use the following snippet codes to grant permissions.

The type of permissions you can grant:
```java
EPermissionType.ACCESS_NOTIFICATIONS
EPermissionType.PACKAGE_USAGE_STATS
EPermissionType.SYSTEM_ALERT_WINDOW
EPermissionType.GET_APP_OPS_STATS
EPermissionType.BATTERY_STATS
EPermissionType.MANAGE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE
EPermissionType.ALL_DANGEROUS_PERMISSIONS
EPermissionType.ACCESS_RX_LOGGER
EPermissionType.SCHEDULE_EXACT_ALARM
EPermissionType.WRITE_SETTINGS
EPermissionType.ACCESSIBILITY_SERVICE
```

Snippet code to grant a permission:
```java
private void enablePermission(final Context aContext, final EPermissionType aPermissionType)
{
    // Enable permission
    CriticalPermissionsHelper.grantPermission(aContext, aPermissionType, new IResultCallbacks() {
        @Override
        public void onSuccess(String message, String resultXML) {
            Log.d(TAG, aPermissionType.toString() + " granted with success.");
        }

        @Override
        public void onError(String message, String resultXML) {
            Log.d(TAG, "Error granting " + aPermissionType.toString() + " permission.\n" + message);
        }

        @Override
        public void onDebugStatus(String message) {
            Log.d(TAG, "Debug Grant Permission " + aPermissionType.toString() + ": " + message);
        }
    });
  }
```

Snippet code to disable a permission:
```java
private void disablePermission(final Context aContext, final EPermissionType aPermissionType)
{
    // Enable permission
    CriticalPermissionsHelper.denyPermission(aContext, aPermissionType, new IResultCallbacks() {
        @Override
        public void onSuccess(String message, String resultXML) {
            Log.d(TAG, aPermissionType.toString() + " granted with success.");
        }

        @Override
        public void onError(String message, String resultXML) {
            Log.d(TAG, "Error granting " + aPermissionType.toString() + " permission.\n" + message);
        }

        @Override
        public void onDebugStatus(String message) {
            Log.d(TAG, "Debug Grant Permission " + aPermissionType.toString() + ": " + message);
        }
    });
  }
```

The verifyPermission method is a work in progress.
Check the sample for more information.
